docs(api): Add usage guide for API-aware entity locking (#257)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/plugin_extensions/api.rst

            return $this->handleView($worlds);
        }
    }

.. vale off

API-aware entity locking
************************

.. vale on

Mautic supports locking for API-editable entities, such as Emails, to prevent overwriting changes while a User is actively editing the entity in the UI.

This is useful to:

* Ensure the API respects the locking behavior already in place in the UI.

> * Return a ``409 Conflict`` when a record is locked.

Reviewer: Let's change this to active voice.

```suggestion
* Return a ``409 Conflict`` when the system locks a record.
```

            return $this->handleView($worlds);
        }
    }

----

> 

Reviewer: We can remove the horizontal line here.

```suggestion
```

Author: Sure

.. vale off

API-aware entity locking

> ****************************

Reviewer: The punctuations under a title should be as long as the text.

```suggestion
API-aware entity locking
************************
```

.. vale on

> Mautic supports locking for API-editable entities, such as Emails, to prevent overwriting changes while a user is actively editing the entity in the UI.

Reviewer: If "user" is Mautic's feature, it should be capitalized.

```suggestion
Mautic supports locking for API-editable entities, such as Emails, to prevent overwriting changes while a User is actively editing the entity in the UI.
```

Author: Now it makes sense about the dictionary that we maintain.

This is useful when:

- You want the API to respect the locking behavior already in place in the UI.

> - You want to return a `409 Conflict` when a record is locked.

Reviewer: There are a few of things here:

- We can focus on what Mautic does or able to.
- Our docs style uses `*` instead of `-` for unordered list.
- Inline code in RST uses double ticks ` ``text`` `.

```suggestion
This is useful to:

* Ensure the API respects the locking behavior already in place in the UI.
* Return a ``409 Conflict`` when a record is locked.
```

Author: Thanks, this makes it more like a document than a pitch.

.. vale off

Enable API lock for a model

> ============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable API lock for a model
===========================
```

.. vale on

To make an entity model API-lock-aware:

1. Implement the interface:

.. code-block:: php

    use Mautic\ApiBundle\Model\ApiLockAwareInterface;

    class MyEntityModel implements ApiLockAwareInterface
    {
        // ...
    }

2. Use the trait to reuse locking logic:

.. code-block:: php

    use Mautic\ApiBundle\Model\ApiEntityLockTrait;

    class MyEntityModel implements ApiLockAwareInterface
    {
        use ApiEntityLockTrait;

        // Optional: Override `isApiLocked()` if you need custom behavior

>     }

Reviewer: There are a couple of things here:

- As each code block belongs to each point, we need to fix the indentation to make them align and avoid confussion.
- Our styles uses `#.` instead of numbers for ordered list to avoid breaking numbers.

```suggestion
#. Implement the interface:

   .. code-block:: php

      use Mautic\ApiBundle\Model\ApiLockAwareInterface;

      class MyEntityModel implements ApiLockAwareInterface
      {
         // ...
      }

#. Use the trait to reuse locking logic:

   .. code-block:: php

      use Mautic\ApiBundle\Model\ApiEntityLockTrait;

      class MyEntityModel implements ApiLockAwareInterface
      {
          use ApiEntityLockTrait;

          // Optional: Override `isApiLocked()` if you need custom behavior
      }
```

Author: Noted.

> This ensures your model will be checked by the API when editing.

Reviewer: Vale suggested not using "will" and passive voice. Let's reword this.

```suggestion
This ensures the API checks your model during editing.
```

> Behind the scenes, the API controller checks:

Reviewer: Vale warns the word "checks". Let's reword this.

```suggestion
Behind the scenes, the API controller validates:
```

.. code-block:: php

    if ($this->model instanceof ApiLockAwareInterface && $this->model->isApiLocked($entity)) {
        ....
    }

.. vale off

Error message
=============

.. vale on

> When an entity is locked, the API returns:

Reviewer: Vale suggested to use passive voice. Please let me know if the suggestion here is not align with the intention.

```suggestion
If the API detects a locked entity, it returns:
```
